Cloud Computing Project Assignment

Design and Implementation STaaS: A Cloud Based Smart Drive

Design: Cloud based portal access from any popular web browser from a computer or a cell phone/pad. 
User can drag and drop files to the portal interfacing area. 
The system will automatically put the file in different folders based on the type of the files, such as “MS Word”, “MS Excel”, “PDF”, “Audio”, “Video”, etc. 
If a new type of file is dropped, the system will automatically create a new folder for this new file type.
Users can also create new folders and establish rules for new file types.
The system will confirm after uploading or downloading (success/fail).
Sorting based on last access time, time of creation, file size and name should be available.
Searching by file name should be implemented.

Data safety and security must be considered in the design with cloud-based solution given, but implementation of data safety and security is not required.

Implementation: Implement the designed system on a public cloud.
You can use any cloud system you prefer as long as it has public access, such as AWS.
You need to work independently but you could leverage the established cloud modules and cloud API.
Establish a domain address with internet access to your system.

Testing: Design testing approaches and test plan including functional testing (Black box and White box), test case design and implementation.

Group: This is a group project.
Each group should have 2-4 students.
Everybody submits a simple project plan by Oct 5, limited to one cover page listing all team members, and 1 content page for a brief introduction about what YOU will do as one of the group. (5 marks)

Presentation: All groups will present their project at the last class(11/21, 11/28).
PPT is limited to 15 pages, presentation limited to 20 minutes, everybody in the group present part of the presentation. (5 Marks).

Every Student Please submit: PPT, Project Report, Source Codes and Modules, and internet domain address (Web address) of the implemented system. (20 Marks)

The project report (every student submit) due 23:59 12/05 on Moodle, should include:
Cover page with your name, student ID and university Email
Brief Project Background, Technology and Market analysis (simple 1 page)
System Design and Architecture
System Implementation over Cloud and Internet Access
Testing Plan Design, Testing Case Design, Testing Result
Performance Evaluation and Performance Optimization (Optional)
Timelines, resource allocation and project planning (simple 1 page)
Summary and References

Note 1: In your project implementation and sample data files, please do not include any real personal data of yourself or anybody else.

Note 2: The service should be accessible from internet.
If you prefer a domain name, there are lots of providers who offer very cheap (say $0.99) domain names, such as GoDaddy etc.
Or you can use GitHub or an IP address for free.
You need to implement this, make sure it works and explain it in the report.
